The skin consists of three main layers: the epidermis, the dermis and the hypodermis.
The epidermis is the outer layer of the skin.
It is very thin, about 0.1 mm.
The epidermis mainly consists of keratinocytes.
These are cells that have a protecting role.
The epidermis also contains immune cells such as langerhans cells and T-cells.
In the deepest part of the epidermis, melanocytes produce melanin which determines a person's skin tone
and protects the skin against harmful, ultraviolet radiation. s the skin against harmful, ultraviolet radiation.
The epidermis does not have its own blood supply
and receives nutrients through diffusion of fluids from the dermis below and oxygen from the surrounding air.
It is firmly connected to the dermis at the dermo-epidermal junction.
The middle skin layer is called the dermis.
The dermis is thicker than the epidermis, around 1-5mm thick.
The dermis is made up of connective tissue, mainly containing fibroblasts within a collagen-elastin matrix.
Collagen ensures skin strength and elastin provides elasticity.
Similar to the epidermis, the dermis also contains additional immune cells
such as macrophages, mast cells, dermal dendritic cells and natural killer t-cells (NKT).
In the dermis, there are also blood and lymph vessels,
nerve endings and sweat glands.
The third skin layer is the hypodermis.
The hypodermis consists of adipocytes, also known as body fat, and loose connective tissue.
It contains nerves and larger blood and lymph vessels compared to those found in the dermis.